Update second half of seq.md, structural changes (#3026)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/tutorials/language/3ds_05_seq.md

With this understanding, we can manually construct a sequence like so:

``` ocaml
# let my_seq  =
    fun () ->
      Seq.Cons (1, fun () -> Seq.Cons (2, fun () -> Seq.Cons (3, fun () -> Seq.Nil)))

> val my_seq : unit -> int Seq.node = <fun>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# let seq_123  =
    fun () -> Seq.Cons (1,
      fun () -> Seq.Cons (2,
        fun () -> Seq.Cons (3,
          fun () -> Seq.Nil)))
val seq_123 : unit -> int Seq.node = <fun>
```

Is this formatting helpful?

Author: I like it!

With this understanding, we can manually construct a sequence like so:

``` ocaml
# let seq_123  =
    fun () -> Seq.Cons (1,
      fun () -> Seq.Cons (2,
        fun () -> Seq.Cons (3,

>           fun () -> Seq.Nil)))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          fun () -> Seq.Nil)));;
```

val seq_123 : unit -> int Seq.node = <fun>
```

> **Note:** The second component of each `Seq.Con`'s tuple is a function. This has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** The second component of each `Seq.Cons`' tuple is a function. This has
```

- : unit = ()
```

## Consumers vs Producers

Sequences can be viewed as functions that are either consumers or
producers. This distinction refers to how functions interact with sequences in
terms of evaluation strategy, specifically when and how they consume or produce

> elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A function with a sequence parameter consumes it; it's a sequence consumer. A function with a sequence result produces it; it's a sequence producer. In both cases, consumption and production occurs on only one element before continuing with the rest.
```

Not sure this is perfect. Let's keep things simple an concrete

### Sequence Consumers: Partially Applied Functions as Parameters

A consumer is a function that **processes** a sequence, consuming its
elements. Consumers should be written as higher-order functions that take a
partially applied function as an argument. This allows for lazy evaluation,
ensuring that elements are fetched one at a time instead of forcing the entire
sequence to be evaluated upfront.

> #### Example: `Seq.iter` (Consumer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A consumer is a function that **processes** a sequence, consuming its
elements. Consumers should be written as higher-order functions that take a
function parameter. This allows for deferred evaluation,
ensuring that elements are fetched one at a time instead of forcing the entire
sequence to be evaluated upfront.

#### Consumer Example: `Seq.iter`
```

Be careful not to confuse “parameter” and “argument.”
* parameter: that's when you define a function, you declare the function's parameters
* argument: that's when you call a function, you pass arguments to the function

Be careful not to confuse “lazy” and “deferred” computation
* deferred: that's the thunk hack that prevents eager evaluation 
* lazy: that's sharing combined with sharing and reuse of previously computed values

```ocaml

> # let print_seq s = Seq.iter print_int s;;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# let print_seq = Seq.iter print_int;;
```

val print_seq : int Seq.t -> unit = <fun>

```

In `print_seq`, `Seq.iter` takes a function (`print_int`) and applies it to each
element as they are generated. If `Seq.iter` were to be fully applied, it would
start consuming elements immediately. The consumer function (`print_int`) is a

> partially applied function that only takes one argument at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `print_seq`, `Seq.iter` takes the function `print_int` and applies it to each
element as they are generated. If `List.iter` was used, the whole integer list would be needed before displaying them starts.
```

> ### Sequence Producers: Partially Applied Functions as Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sequence Producers: Functions as Results
```

A producer is a function that **generates** a sequence. Producers return a
partially applied function so that elements are only computed when needed.  This

> ensures lazy evaluation and avoids unnecessary computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A producer is a function that **generates** a sequence. Producers return a function so that elements are only computed when needed.  This
ensures defered evaluation and avoids unnecessary computation.
```

> #### Example: `Seq.unfold` (Producer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Producer Example: `Seq.unfold`
```

```ocaml
 # let naturals =
  Seq.unfold (fun x -> Some (x, x + 1)) 0;;
val naturals : int Seq.t = <fun>
```

> `Seq.unfold` returns a function of type `unit -> 'a Seq.node`, making it a lazy
> producer. Each time this function is called, a new element is produced.
> 
> To recap, consumers fetch elements only when needed and producers delay
> computation until elements are requested. This pattern ensures that sequences
> remain lazy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application of `Seq.unfold` has type  `unit -> int Seq.node`, making it a function, a deferred producer. Each time this function is called, a new element is produced.
```

## Be Aware of Seq.Cons vs Seq.cons

The `Seq` module in the OCaml Standard Library contains two version of
"cons-ing" that warrant special attention due to their similar names and distinct
behavior.

> We have already been introduced to the `Seq.Cons` variant constructor. As a
> refresher, below is the type declaration for the `Seq` module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have already been introduced to the `Seq.Cons` variant constructor. As a
refresher, here is how to display its definition:
```

 ``` ocaml

> # type +'a node =
>     | Nil
>     | Cons of 'a * 'a t
>   and 'a t = unit -> 'a node;;
> type 'a node = Nil | Cons of 'a * 'a t
> and 'a t = unit -> 'a node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# #show Seq.node;;
type 'a node = 'a Seq.node = Nil | Cons of 'a * 'a Seq.t
```

 ```

> The other version of "cons-ing" supported by the Standard Library is the
> function `Seq.cons` (with a lowercase "c") with the following value declaration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other version of "cons-ing" is the
function `Seq.cons` (with a lowercase "c") with the following value declaration:
```

```ocaml
val cons : 'a -> 'a Seq.t -> 'a Seq.t
```

From the signature, we gather that it is a function that takes two parameters, a

> value and a sequence. Its function declaration is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value and a sequence. Its definition is the following:
```

Beware not to confuse “declaration” and “definition”
* a ”declaration” says “this is a name”
* a “definition” says “this is what this names stands for”

Definitions are declarations, but not the other way around

Author: Thanks, this was silly of me :)

``` ocaml
 # let cons x next () = Cons (x, next);;
val cons : 'a -> 'a t -> unit -> 'a node = <fun>
```

`Seq.Cons` and `Seq.cons` are similar in that both are capable of creating a new
sequence:

 ``` ocaml
# let base_cons = List.to_seq [2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9]

  let new_cons_v1 = (fun () -> Seq.Cons(1, base_cons))
                                 |> List.of_seq            (* With Seq.Cons *)

  let new_cons_v2 = Seq.cons 1 base_cons |> List.of_seq;;  (* With Seq.cons *)
val base_cons : int Seq.t = <fun>
val new_cons_v1 : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10]
val new_cons_v2 : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10]
```

Now that we have seen these two versions of "cons-ing" can construct the same
sequence, it begs the question: what does the function `Seq.cons` provide us
that the constructor `Seq.Cons` does not?

In short, `Seq.Cons` provides a convenient means of recursively defining a
sequence generator and a clumsy means to prepend a value to a sequence.
Conversely, `Seq.cons` provides a convenient means to prepend a value to a

> sequence and an impossible means to recursively defining a sequence generator.

Reviewer: This text may come too early. I understand it as an introduction to the `fibs` example. Unfortunately, it turns out into an abstract thing. Therefore it's hard to understand.

Don't be afraid to start with the example, the code, without saying much about it. Understanding `fibs_v1` code is easier and more helpful than understanding this text, and it is “the real thing”.

This is a general rule we try to use in all the tutorials. Show the code first, show the examples first. Once understood, it's possible to express a more general rule or principle that explains the code and other similar codes.

Author: Thats a good point!

Author: @cuihtlauac I moved this section after the `fibs` example and gave it a heading of "### A Mental Model for `Seq.Cons` vs `Seq.cons`"

Lets look at how confusing `Seq.Cons` and `Seq.con` can lead to unintended
behavior.

### Fibs with `Seq.cons`

Although the following looks like a possible way to define the [Fibonacci
sequence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number), it leads to trouble:

```ocaml
# let rec fibs_v1 m n = Seq.cons m (fibs_v1 n (n + m));;
val fibs : int -> int -> int Seq.t = <fun>

# let fibs_v1 0 1;;
Stack overflow during evaluation (looping recursion?).
```

<!-- Or with an int version:

```ocaml
# let rec ints_v1 n = Seq.cons n (n + 1);;
val fibs : int -> int -> int Seq.t = <fun>

# let res = ints_v1 0;;
Stack overflow during evaluation (looping recursion?).

```
-->

This produces a never-ending recursion that leads to a stack overflow.

> ### Figs with `Seq.Cons`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fibs with `Seq.Cons`
```

val print_seq : int Seq.t -> unit = <fun>

```

In `print_seq`, `Seq.iter` takes the function `print_int` and applies it to each
element as they are generated. If `List.iter` was used, the whole integer list would be needed before displaying them starts.

### Sequence Producers: Functions as Results

A producer is a function that **generates** a sequence. Producers return a function so that elements are only computed when needed.  This
ensures deferred evaluation and avoids unnecessary computation.

#### Producer Example: `Seq.unfold`

```ocaml
 # let naturals =
  Seq.unfold (fun x -> Some (x, x + 1)) 0;;
val naturals : int Seq.t = <fun>
```

This application of `Seq.unfold` has type  `unit -> int Seq.node`, making it a function, a deferred producer. Each time this function is called, a new element is produced.

## Be Aware of Seq.Cons vs Seq.cons

The `Seq` module in the OCaml Standard Library contains two version of
"cons-ing" that warrant special attention due to their similar names and distinct
behavior.

We have already been introduced to the `Seq.Cons` variant constructor. As a
refresher, here is how to display its definition:

 ``` ocaml

> # #show Seq.node;;
> type 'a node = 'a Seq.node = Nil | Cons of 'a * 'a Seq.t
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# #show Seq.node;;
type 'a node = 'a Seq.node = Nil | Cons of 'a * 'a Seq.t
```

Author: @cuihtlauac I am unable to commit this suggestion: the tooltip says "This suggestion is invalid because no changes were made to the code".

I tried marking this conversation as resolved, but it did not change the status of the request for change.

 ```

The other version of "cons-ing" is the
function `Seq.cons` (with a lowercase `c`) with the following value declaration:

```ocaml
val cons : 'a -> 'a Seq.t -> 'a Seq.t
```

From the signature, we gather that it is a function that takes two parameters, a
value and a sequence. Its definition is the following:

``` ocaml
 # let cons x next () = Cons (x, next);;
val cons : 'a -> 'a t -> unit -> 'a node = <fun>
```

`Seq.Cons` and `Seq.cons` are similar in that both are capable of creating a new
sequence:

 ``` ocaml

> # let base_cons = List.to_seq [2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9]
> 
>   let new_cons_v1 = (fun () -> Seq.Cons(1, base_cons))
>                                  |> List.of_seq            (* With Seq.Cons *)
> 
>   let new_cons_v2 = Seq.cons 1 base_cons |> List.of_seq;;  (* With Seq.cons *)
> val base_cons : int Seq.t = <fun>
> val new_cons_v1 : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10]
> val new_cons_v2 : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# let ints_from_2 = Seq.ints 2
  let ints_a () = Seq.Cons (1, ints_from_2)  (* With Seq.Cons *)
  let ints_b = Seq.cons 1 ints_from_2;;      (* With Seq.cons *)
val ints_from_2 : int Seq.t = <fun>
val ints_a : unit -> int Seq.node = <fun>
val ints_b : int Seq.t = <fun>

# ints_a |> Seq.take 3 |> List.of_seq;;
- : int list = [1; 2; 3]

# ints_b |> Seq.take 3 |> List.of_seq;;
- : int list = [1; 2; 3]
```

```

## Consumers vs Producers

A function with a sequence parameter consumes it; it's a sequence consumer. A function with a sequence result produces it; it's a sequence producer. In both cases, consumption and production occurs on only one element before continuing with the rest.

### Sequence Consumers: Partially Applied Functions as Parameters

A consumer is a function that **processes** a sequence, consuming its
elements. Consumers should be written as higher-order functions that take a
function parameter. This allows for deferred evaluation,
ensuring that elements are fetched one at a time instead of forcing the entire
sequence to be evaluated upfront.

#### Consumer Example: `Seq.iter`

```ocaml
# let print_seq = Seq.iter print_int;;
val print_seq : int Seq.t -> unit = <fun>

```

In `print_seq`, `Seq.iter` takes the function `print_int` and applies it to each
element as they are generated. If `List.iter` was used, the whole integer list would be needed before displaying them starts.

### Sequence Producers: Functions as Results

A producer is a function that **generates** a sequence. Producers return a function so that elements are only computed when needed.  This

> ensures defered evaluation and avoids unnecessary computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ensures deferred evaluation and avoids unnecessary computation.
```

#### Producer Example: `Seq.unfold`

```ocaml
 # let naturals =
  Seq.unfold (fun x -> Some (x, x + 1)) 0;;
val naturals : int Seq.t = <fun>
```

This application of `Seq.unfold` has type  `unit -> int Seq.node`, making it a function, a deferred producer. Each time this function is called, a new element is produced.

## Be Aware of Seq.Cons vs Seq.cons

The `Seq` module in the OCaml Standard Library contains two version of
"cons-ing" that warrant special attention due to their similar names and distinct
behavior.

We have already been introduced to the `Seq.Cons` variant constructor. As a
refresher, here is how to display its definition:

 ``` ocaml
# #show Seq.node;;
type 'a node = 'a Seq.node = Nil | Cons of 'a * 'a Seq.t

 ```

The other version of "cons-ing" is the

> function `Seq.cons` (with a lowercase "c") with the following value declaration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function `Seq.cons` (with a lowercase `c`) with the following value declaration:
```

```ocaml
val cons : 'a -> 'a Seq.t -> 'a Seq.t
```

From the signature, we gather that it is a function that takes two parameters, a
value and a sequence. Its definition is the following:

``` ocaml
 # let cons x next () = Cons (x, next);;
val cons : 'a -> 'a t -> unit -> 'a node = <fun>
```

`Seq.Cons` and `Seq.cons` are similar in that both are capable of creating a new
sequence:

 ``` ocaml
# let base_cons = List.to_seq [2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9]

  let new_cons_v1 = (fun () -> Seq.Cons(1, base_cons))
                                 |> List.of_seq            (* With Seq.Cons *)

  let new_cons_v2 = Seq.cons 1 base_cons |> List.of_seq;;  (* With Seq.cons *)
val base_cons : int Seq.t = <fun>
val new_cons_v1 : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10]
val new_cons_v2 : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10]
```

Now that we have seen these two versions of "cons-ing" can construct the same
sequence, it begs the question: what does the function `Seq.cons` provide us

> that the constructor `Seq.Cons` does not?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sequence, it begs the question: what makes `Seq.cons` and `Seq.Cons` different?
```
